### What is Maven? And what role does it play in your framework?

Maven is a build process automation and project management tool for Java projects:

*   Maven automates the build process, including tasks such as compiling source code, running tests, packaging binaries, and creating artifacts.
*   Maven follows a convention over the configuration approach, defining a standard project structure. This makes it easier for developers to understand and contribute to projects, as they know where to find source code, resources, and configuration files.
*   Maven manages project dependencies, retrieving and resolving them from remote repositories.

### What Maven lifecycles do you know?

Maven defines a set of lifecycle phases that dictate the order in which tasks are executed. There are three built-in build lifecycles: default, clean, and site. The default lifecycle handles your project deployment, the clean lifecycle handles project cleaning, and the site lifecycle handles the creation of your project’s website.


Clean lifecycle:

*   **clean** — remove all files generated by the previous build

Default lifecycle:

*   **validate** — validate that the project is correct and all necessary information is available.
*   **compile** — compile the source code of the project.
*   **test** — test the compiled source code using a suitable testing framework.
*   **package** — take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.
*   **verify** — run any checks on the results of integration tests to ensure quality criteria are met.

Site lifecycle:

*   **site** — generate the project’s site documentation.

Find the complete list [here](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-lifecycle.html#Lifecycle_Reference).

### What Maven command do you use to run your test?

I use **mvn test** Maven command to run my tests.

### How can you pass environmental variables from the maven command?

Maven command with system property:

mvn test -Denv=PROD

Code to read system property value:

String value \= System.getProperty("env");  
System.out.println("System property: " + value);

**Output:**

System property: PROD